skills/rust/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: rust
description: Rust development guidelines and workflow
---

# Rust Development

## Commands

- `cargo build` - Build (debug only)
- `cargo test` - Run tests
- `cargo fmt` - Format code (run after changes)
- `cargo clippy` - Lint (run after changes)

## Dependencies

- Use cargo commands only
- **ALWAYS ask the user for approval before adding any new dependency**
- Only suggest well-known, widely-used crates with good maintenance records
- Prefer crates from the Rust ecosystem's trusted maintainers (e.g., tokio-rs, serde-rs, rust-lang)
- Check crate download counts and recent activity as indicators of reliability
- Run `cargo audit` to check for vulnerabilities

## Toolchain

- Prefer stable Rust
- Use nightly only if required

## Style

- Minimal comments, self-documenting code
- Concise implementations
- Discuss large refactors before starting

## Error Handling

- Use judgment: `unwrap`/`expect` OK when clearer
- Match on errors when recovery is needed

## Testing

- Unit tests with `#[cfg(test)]` module when asked
- Integration tests in separate files

## Build

- **NEVER** make release builds (`--release`)
- Always use debug builds

Commit message:

Enforce cargo add and cargo audit in rust skill
Clarify that cargo add must be used for dependencies (not manual
Cargo.toml edits), cargo audit must run after adding dependencies,
and any audit issues must always be reported to the user.

skills/rust/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: rust
description: Rust development guidelines and workflow
---

# Rust Development

## Commands

- `cargo build` - Build (debug only)
- `cargo test` - Run tests
- `cargo fmt` - Format code (run after changes)
- `cargo clippy` - Lint (run after changes)

## Dependencies

- **MUST use `cargo add <crate>` to add dependencies** - never manually edit Cargo.toml for dependencies
- **ALWAYS ask the user for approval before adding any new dependency**
- Only suggest well-known, widely-used crates with good maintenance records
- Prefer crates from the Rust ecosystem's trusted maintainers (e.g., tokio-rs, serde-rs, rust-lang)
- Check crate download counts and recent activity as indicators of reliability
- **ALWAYS run `cargo audit` after adding a new dependency**
- **ALWAYS report any vulnerabilities or issues from `cargo audit` to the user** - never silently ignore audit results

## Toolchain

- Prefer stable Rust
- Use nightly only if required

## Style

- Minimal comments, self-documenting code
- Concise implementations
- Discuss large refactors before starting

## Error Handling

- Use judgment: `unwrap`/`expect` OK when clearer
- Match on errors when recovery is needed

## Testing

- Unit tests with `#[cfg(test)]` module when asked
- Integration tests in separate files

## Build

- **NEVER** make release builds (`--release`)
- Always use debug builds
